**McWard, Robert (1837-1908)**

Robert McWard was born Jan. 1, 1837 in Ireland, the son of Richard and Eliza Wilson McWard., He was married in 1858 to Margaret McIntosh, who was born in Ireland Oct. 31, 1842 the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John McIntosh. The following incident will help establish an approximate year for their arrival in the U.S. since an exact date is not known. Marguerite McWard Achenbach, only granddaughter of Margaret McWard, remembers hearing her grandmother tell of making clothes for President Lincoln's inauguration in 1861, so we will assume they came to this country sometime in the late 1850's. During the early years of their marriage, Robert and Margaret McWard lived in the "Horse Creek" area near Pawnee, Ill. They came to Christian County in 1873, locating in Ricks Twp., six miles Southeast of Morrisonville on the farm now owned by Orville Fuller. In 1881 they moved to the home place which is 4 miles east of Morrisonville and consists of 160 acres. They lived here until the death of Robert McWard, Oct. 29, 1908. At this time Margaret McWard moved to Palmer where she lived until her death Jan. 27, 1929. She lived in the large, two-story house on Main St. Next to the new post office building. This is now the home of Mr. and Mrs. Alex Campbell. 

Robert and Margaret became the parents of 4 children: Robert J. was born in 1866 and died in 1950. His wife Luella was born 1868 and died 1938. They are buried in Taylorville Oak Hill Cemetery. William H. McWard was born Feb. 16, 1868 at Springfield and died Jan. 21, 1869 of lung fever. He was buried with his parents. in Oak Ridge Cemetery, Springfield, Ill. Richard McWard was born Jan. 11, 1870 and died Sept. 1. 1955. Fannie was born March 1871. and lived about 2 months: she is buried in Antioch Cemetery, southeast of Morrisonville.