**McWard, Robert Gail (1945-)**

Regarding the accident in 1950 - I was only 5 but remember parts of that trip. The rodeo parade, which went through the center of downtown and we were staying in the best hotel and watched the parade from our balcony. Grandpa Elmer was still sherif at that time and he bought me cowboy boots and a hat. I remember some of the accident. I was sitting between grandpa and grandma Helen and grandpa threw me to the floor. Grandma and I were not hurt. Grandpa R J and Elmer were hurt. No seatbelts in those days. The best part was that Uncle Gail came out by train and got me and on the train back we had a sleeping compartment. They had to wait on the car to get fixed and let their injuries heal. It was a 4 door Pontiac . I remember because the hood ornament was an Indian head which was lighted at night. Pretty cool. My Dad had to run the jail. Grandpa and Grandma lived below the jailbirds  living on top. Mom had to fix all their meals and their was a dumb waiter that took the meals up to the guard who gave the meals to the inmates. The trip out was fun stoping at Best Western Motels and other sites of interest. Dad and I found the small hotel grandpa stayed in when we lived in Tucson. It is now offices for an attorney here in Tucson. - Robert McWard 7/15/2018

Yes they did. I spent a lot of time there with them. The Sheriff’s Office was in the Court House on the town square. He was the Sheriff for Christian County. Once when I was staying with them Grandma told me to go upstairs and tell the jail keeper that the food she had prepared would be coming up on the dumb waiter. She said to me tell him the good for the jail birds would be coming up. So I went upstairs and told George the only Deputy upstairs that grandma would be sending the food up in a few minutes to the jail birds!! The jail one the top floor only held 4 inmates as I remember. They had one jail break. The prisoners over came the jailer, hit him on the head. I was staying there and remember deputies came quickly to the jail. They took Grandma and myself out to a squad car and up to the courthouse office. The prisoners could not get out cause the door had to be unlocked from the inside. George had a bump on his head. In the 60’s the Sheriffs home and jail was torn down.  5/7/2022


Bob: These guys were older or younger than me. Did not recognized any of them. I graduated from HS in 63. I only played my 9th grade tackle football in T-ville. Junior High was 7-8-9. HighSchool was 10-11-12. They later changed that and 9th was made part of HS. But my 9th grade was called junior high. 7-8-9. Big deal being freshman as top not as bottom. They later changed because all schools in the district changed. Sophomore year and half my junior year I went to HS in Tucson. Then Dad got transferred back to PHX. Did not want to leave Tucson but had to do it. Turned out to be really good. Second semester of my junior year started at Scottsdale Arcadia. Best thing that ever happened. Girls were what saved me. They felt sorry for me because I had to transfer. That was nice instead of a bummer transfer. Won starting position middle line backer my senior year. It was not easy but I thought it was easier, practices etc than Rincon in Tucson. AWe beat Tucson High School for state championship. Played at ASU Stadium. All my buddies as well as coaches came up to see the game. I intercepted a pass on 3 rd down and we got ball and went for touchdown. We had lost one game all season. Tucson High was undefeated. They were were picked to win. We beat them pretty bad. Was some year!!! Pat came up for the game. All my buddies from Rincon HS in Tucson who came up thought Tucson for sure would beat us. Not even close. Later I went down to visit Pat and she was a Pom, Pom Girl. So I went to the game at Rincon. Pat’s school was playing at home against Tucson High. I wore my Arcadia Letterman’s Sweater and som guys from Tucson came over at half time to ask if the A on my sweater stood for Arcadia. They wanted me to come out after the game and they wanted to see who was the toughest. Fortunately the guys I played football with at Rincon outnumbered the Tucson High Guys and they backed away. Thank goodness.

Ellen: Great story just learned a lot I didn’t know about. Thanks Brother!! I just remember having to move back to Taylorville in 9th grade. It wasn’t until like second semester I started making friends. Pam Michelson was and is still one of my best friends. I remember Cindy McWard was not very nice to me. But I ended up having more friends than her!! 

Bob: It is fun to look back. I was just fortunate that I got to go to Arcadia and graduate. That kept me in the running for UofA. Knew a lot of guys and gals and joining a fraternity. Gibson Pratt who lived across the street from us on Verde Lane was my room mate second semester in the fraternity. Got to take a car out my southmore year. Bought it from Ronny Adcoks at Luster Ford in T-ville. The car was a 59’ Chevrolet. Two door 3 speed shifter on the column. No air conditioner. A nurse traded it in and was low mileage, a beige color. I really liked that car and Spengler and I rode back to Tucson together. It did not last long. Pat, a fraternity brother and myself were all in the front seat. We were going to Phoenix for Thanksgiving break. It was a two lane highway and a man was driving. He fell asleep and crossed over into my lane. Two way highway. The road was busy and cars stopped to help. A State Policeman arrived and he came over to me and said “ what did you do here son” before I could answer people who

Pulled over behind me immediately stuck up for me. The pick up he was driving ended up on the other side of the road. No seatbelt and he was thrown all around in the cab. He was busted up pretty bad. He owned a tire dealership so he was insured. What a day. Smoke coming from the engine, hood blew off and my right tire was off of the  road. I had to reach across  the seat to open the passenger door, my door would not open. My fraternity brother was not in good shape and I had to lean across Pat push him out. I thought because of the smoke and steam coming from the engine that it was going to bust out in flame. Got both of them out and was took them away from the car. I broke the steering wheel in half pushing against it so hard. Pat’s hand came foreword hit the cracked the steering wheel which almost cut off two of her fingers. Her cheek hit the dash, no safety patting. Her cheek  bone was broken and had slipped down. I remember her entire front of her blouse was covered in blood. People did stop and helped out. Pat’s Black Standard Poodle was in the back seat. He got out in all the confusion and was not found till 4 days later by her Dad. Jacque was so lucky that coyotes, BobCats Mountain Lion did not get him. Poodles are smart and he was a standard. What a day!!! What a Thanksgiving. We went to court, jury trial two years later when Pat and I were graduating. When Pat was getting ready to take the stand the the lawyer representing the truck driver called for a break. They settled up full. They knew the jury was going to ask for a lot of pain and injury money plus the vehicle. Dad came out for the trial. What a day!!! A Thanksgiving not to forget. I really liked that two door Chevy, 3 speed on the column. No air. Rich and I found out where the car was in a Tucson junk yard. Could not be fixed. It trashed. The end. 

Nancy: I didn’t know it was 2 years before they settled after the accident. That’s a long time. 

Bob: Yep in the meantime I drove the cheapest, ugliest car at the U of A. But nobody wanted to steel it. 

Ellen: Wow! Did not know dad came to the trial! I remember mom going to Tucson and dad and I stayed home. He never told me how bad the accident was! Pretty scary! I remember a red car I think it was red! You let me drive it and I left the emergency brake on and boy did it smoke and smell. I went to Pam’s house and stayed there until it didn’t smell. Don’t think I told anyone 

Bob: I had a purchased a car waiting for the lawsuit from the accident. I bought a car from Bob Spengler’s Brother. He married one of the Podeski daughters so he worked the meat counter at My Store. It had no AC or power steering. That would have been the car. Two door, dodge red with a white top. The trunk was huge. We put a motorcycle that belonged to Bob S. in the trunk!!! To take back to Tucson. Spangler could work on anything mechanical. 

Ellen: Too funny! Things about you that I never knew. It must of been a small motorcycle!

2/6/2024