Dear Mom,

I haven't written to you in a long time either. I wrote Dorothy a note yesterday and sent down with Vern. It is 12:30 and I'm making it fine. It's really quiet around here.

My teeth have hurt so bad from the braces but they feel somewhat better today. My jaw feels better since he put the braces on but they have been murder. It is still sore and still a little puffy around my ear. The swelling makes it feel sort of numb around my ear and up in my heiar (my scalp feels numb not my hair) I sneezed this morning and that really made my jaw hurt. My teeth are clamped so tight together and then the bands hooked on to the braces pull on my teeth. They feel like they are being pulled out. The swelling has really went down on my chin and isn't nearly as sore. I guess Dr. Walchak didn't like that doctor's stitches because he took them out and put some funny tape on. The cut is completely covered with it. It really seems to stick good. I guess this leaves less scar than stitches.

Willow is sitting out here with a mouse. He always has one.

I felt sorry for the boys Wednesday night. They were so quiet and din't really know what to do. When I fell I couldn't get up for awhile because of the pain on both sides of my head. I felt like everything in my head was jarred. The doctor said both sides of my jaw were driven up. I didn't know I'd cut my chin till I got up and saw blood on my hand. Then I didn't know how bad it was till we got back to the car and I looked at it and figured it needed sewed up. Darren and Alan said later I shouldn't have showed it to Kevin and Derrick because they might have fainted. That would have been all we needed. By the time we got back home the left side defintely hurt more than the other. I fell about 7:00, we got to the hospital at 9:00, they cleaned my chin and then sent me to x-ray and sewed my chin a little after 10:00. After they read the x-ray they called Dr. Brown again and he told them to have me come back Thursday for those scan x-rays and had them call Dr. Walchak. He is a plastic surgeon and reconstructive surgery. He specializes in jaws and and hands. I didn't realize before that orthopedic doctors don't do fractured jaws. Dr. Hurley calls in plastic surgeons and they said Dr. Walchak is excellent. Gladys said he was good too.

The phone range awhile ago. It rang 9 times Saturday evening while they were all gone. It was really driving me crazy. I think it was Greg most of the time, he called after they got home and was staying overnite at Jack's

I'm learning to live on apple juice and V8. It is so hard to find things that I can suck between my teeth. I tried malt o meal in lots of liquid and put it in the blender and it still wouldn't work. It just clogs up between my teeth and nothing will go thru, then I have to get it all rinsed out. I made potato soup a couple times and put it in the blender and really thn it down and it works okay. I had some liquid squash. Steve said yuk. I don't want anything sweet. It just doesn't sound good and it makes my mouth so sticky. So far I've had apple juice, V8, potatoe soup, squash, cocoa and 1 milk shake with half a banana. I want to get some yogurt to mixin a milk shake. The doctor told us to get a water pik, which we did and I'm supposed to rinse my mouth with salt water every hour. Last night was the first night I was able to go all night without getting up and sitting up part of the night. My mouth would start hurting too bad laying down.
